So let's look at each of those
stages in our basic sales funnel.
First, is attract attention, we got to
grab people's attention, all right?
So first we need to identify who
we wanna make contact with, right?
Who is the audience, okay?
And then we need to work out
how we're gonna contact them
without actually selling to them, right?
We're not gonna sell to them because
they're not gonna be ready to buy.
The chance of us emailing them exactly the
moment that they're ready to buy is pretty
near zero, which is why cold calling and
things like that don't work very well.
So instead, we're gonna approach
them with another thing in mind but
we'll get into that more.
Instead, right, what we're gonna
do is we're gonna approach them,
we're gonna approach people and
these will be cold emails.
These is where I do personalized one
to one emails to certain people.
I'm not gonna try and sell them anything.
Instead, I'm gonna approach them and
say that you want their help,
right, because that's not sales email.
You don't get emails from sales
companies going, can you help us,
in a very personal way,
it's not like that.
We're gonna approach them in a very non
threatening way, we're gonna ask them for
their help and their feedback for
some research that we're carrying out.
Then later on, we're gonna introduce them
to something we're gonna give them value.
It might be a course, it might be
a report, it might be a free app,
it might be at lots of different things,
right?
And we're gonna get them involved in
the creation process of whatever that
thing is.
Now I know all of this doesn't make
a huge amount of sense right now but
we'll get into it more as we go.
So what we're doing here is we're
gonna build awareness in that group's
mind, right?
We're gonna make them aware that we exist.
And we're gonna do it in
such a way that we're
going to demonstrate our
interest in the sector,
our desire to help them and
provide them value.
And we're also then later on gonna
start building further awareness and
growing the list further using
things like guest blogging,
speaking social media and
other kinds of stuff.
So we're gonna get into all of
that in a lot more detail later.
So don't worry if it doesn't make
an enormous amount of sense right now.
This is as much what's on the screen
at the moment, is as much for
your quick reference later than it is for
helping right now.
With the building the connection,
so we've got people's attention,
we're gonna get people's attention
by contacting them directly and then
through things like guest blogging and
social media and all these other things.
Once we got their attention,
we need to create a connection, right?
And so what we're gonna do is we're going
to offer people something for free, okay?
So this is a marketing terms,
is called a lead magnet where you give
them something for free in return for
get into contact them and
build a relationship with them.
So maybe you're giving them a course,
for example, a free course.
And when they access the course,
we're also gonna ask them to sign up for
a mailing list, right,
offering them not to be sold out but
more advice on best practice.
So let's say you did a course on,
well, let's use a real example,
Harry Roberts, a friend of mine,
he is an expert in performance, okay?
So he gives away course
material about how to improve
the performance of your website, right?
And you sign up for his mailing list and
he shares more advice about how to
improve the performance of your website.
So by giving away,
by helping people you get the permission
that you need to stay in contact
with them over the long term.
If you are only selling at them,
you're not creating value,
there's no benefit to them.
But if you're helping them, you're
giving them advice, you're giving them
free stuff, you're being there for
them to support them in any way you can,
then you got permission to talk
to them on an ongoing basis.
And of course you got keep them
engaged over the long term and
that's where my two weekly
newsletter comes into it.
So once they're on the mailing list
we need to keep them engaged and
keep providing value otherwise
they're going to unsubscribe, right,
before potentially they're ready to buy.
So but basically the aim of keeping
them engaged is to ensure that
they remember you when they have
a need for your services, right?
So the first person that pops into their
head is pulled back when they need user
experience services or
conversion rate optimization services,
that's what I'm aiming for, right?
And that gets me away from, take the
procurement platforms I was talking about,
where you're there to make up the numbers.
But suddenly you are that
preferred supplier and
everybody else is the ones making up
the numbers, right, hugely different.
And then once we got them on the mailing
list, we've got them following regularly,
we want to get them to contact us, to talk
to us, even if they haven't got a job.
And the reason that we want to do that
is because that builds a relationship,
it builds a rapport, right?
One of the biggest reasons why somebody
hires you over somebody else isn't
your skill set, right, there are other
people that have got your skill set.
The reason someone wants to hire you
rather than someone else is because they
like you, they like the way you think,
the way you behave, your professionalism,
your attitude, your personality,
all of those things sell, right?
And that comes from building trust and
the relationship and the communication.
So we wanna encourage
that as much as we can.
So if you're on my mailing list,
you'll find that I often say.
Look, what I've shared today maybe
it's a little bit complicated,
maybe you don't get it all,
maybe you've got questions,
maybe your circumstance is unique,
drop me an email, I'm here to help.
And I make no judgments
about who writes to me.
So I don't look at,
when someone writes to me and
they've got a Gmail address and
it's not coming from Virgin or
Nike or Pepsi, I don't go,
I'm not going to reply to them.
I reply to everybody, I help everybody,
even people that write to me and
say I'm a student, right?
Now this is how long term my strategy is,
right?
Because I know that
that student can go and
get a job and
then they'll recommend me, okay?
And I do to this day,
now I've been doing this for so long.
I get people I honest and
this this really,
I can never work out whether I want to
hug them or hit them when they say this.
But they'll say something like,
I've always wanted to work with you,
man, I listened to your podcast
when I was in high school.
And it's like kids, and now they're
like senior management of Twitter or
something and there's but, yeah.
And so just build that relationship,
get chatting with people,
help everybody, right?
This is the underpinning principle of
everything that we're talking about today,
is don't market, don't sell,
be helpful, right?
So let's recap what we've said so far and
then I think it's time to take a break.
So, first of all,
we wanna grab people's attention, the P,
the specific audience we wanna reach,
we wanna grab their attention.
We wanna then get permission to contact
them regularly, we wanna demonstrate
value and expertise to them to show
that we are worth working with.
And then we wanna keep in contact
with them until they're ready to make
a purchase